### Matt Parker XMas Tree

## My attempt to provide more functionality for Matt Parker's Christmas tree.  
## Original video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TvlpIojusBE&ab_channel=Stand-upMaths

# In order to run this on a raspberry pi, the files xmaslights-nathan.py and vid.py should be placed in the same directory.  Then xmaslights-nathan.py should be run with python.
# For best results, view the tree from the XZ plane

# Files to include on the pi:
- xmaslights-nathan.py - the file that actually draws everything to the christmas tree
    - First displays an physics simulation of a playground ball bouncing
    - Then displays a few example images to the tree (Matt Parker's face, the letter pi, and the cover of the book Humble Pi)
    - Finally displays a 30 second clip from the origional video to the tree (if the program can find vid.py)
- vid.py - a file containing all the information necessary to draw the 30 second video clip to the pi.  Generated by vidToTree.py
    - seperated because it is very large.  Without this file, the program will still run, just not display the video.

# Utilities provided in this repo:
- imgToTree.py - a python script which converts an image file into a properly indexed color array for the tree
    - array is printed out into terminal and can be pasted into a python file
- vidToTree.py - a python script which converts a .mp4 file into an 2D array of colors (or a 3D array of integers).  Each element in this array is a frame of the video.
    - array is written to a file called vid.py.  This file should be placed into the same directory as xmaslights-nathan.py

# Simulation Enviornment files (should NOT be copied to a pi):
- neopixel.py - a file that simulates the christmas tree using matplotlib's 3D functionality.  Can be used without a raspberry pi or lights to play around
- board.py - a file that contains a board constant used in xmaslights-nathan.py.  Allows the file to compile when not on a pi
